Let's get into variables.
By the end of the section, you should have a very solid understanding of what a variable is. Variables
are kind of like containers in JavaScript. And using variables to store data is the foundation of JavaScript.
It really is. And it's done in three different parts
but we're going to get into those in later lectures. For now
I just want you to understand that a variable is just a container to store values.
That's it.
Let's look at Wally.
Wally Smart.
Remember him?
We already know some information about him.
His name is Wally Smart.
He's only got 34 funds in his account.
He's not logged in, and he's got a few favorites.
How would we go about storing these into variables?
How does this work?
I've already mentioned that taking data and later manipulating that data is the backbone of programming.
All languages use variables and variables allow you to store things and use them later.
That's all the variable is.
So let's take our friend Wally.
These are values.
But how do we store them?
Well, let's look at each one.
Let's create a container, which is just a variable.
And let's name that "name" because we're going to store Wally Smart's name in it. So it's almost like you
taking a container and you labeling that container.
Let's label it "name", and let's put Wally Smart into that container.
Let's set that aside now.
Let's go down the next one on the list.
What about 34?
Well, no problem, we've got an unlimited supply of containers.
Let's call this one "balance" because that's the balance of funds in his account.
We can call it anything we want. And let's store that 34 into that container.
And we keep working our way down the list.
Let's get another container for whether he's logged in or not.
Let's label that "loggedIn", and that store that value in that container.
I hope you are seeing a pattern here.
We're doing the same now for favorites.
We store the favorites in another container.
The important point that I'm sure you've picked up on already is that all of these variables were created
in the same way.
We got a container, we labeled it and we put in the value.
And you can also see that variables can hold different types of data.
Think about a container in your pantry, you can put different types of food in those containers, the
same thing with JavaScript.
We just don't talk food.
We talk value types.
In our example, loggedIn is a boolean, balance is a number, his name is a string, and favorites, well we've
just said that's complex.
It's actually an Array.
And in our programming career and any application you build, you're probably going to have hundreds
and thousands of variables that you create in your code.
That's why it's worthwhile having a whole section on them so you deeply understand them.
Another thing that's interesting here is that all our variables have unique names.
It would be very confusing if "balance" somehow became "name".
Like, that just doesn't make sense.
And then you start overriding variables and all of that, and it becomes very messy.
Remember, we create variables.
We then put values in them and we can store them, and we should make certain that our variables have
distinct names.
Let's move on.